The department began making a very conscious effort to hire minorities.
In fact, we hired some rather inferior minorities.
Fortunately for us, in many ways, they left.
We hired one person in American Studies that couldn't teach and didn't get along with students and that sort of thing.
At one time, we probably had more minorities than the other department on the campus.
as far as women goes, blacks, and Hispanics.
Because we've had as many as seven or eight females and a couple of blacks and a couple of Hispanics in the department.
If you look at any other department on campus, where would you find that?
No place else.
Do you know of any problems that a minority faculty member had in the department?
I don't know of any problems they ever had except one of our faculty members
black one a number of times was interviewed in the fat and talked a great deal about prejudice and things like that and things of that sort.
He never said it had ever happened to him.
In fact, my view on it is that the department has gone over backwards to take care of blacks, Hispanics.
They've got preferential treatment and women then.
And we let a woman go one time who had not
who had not produced, who had not finished her dissertation, but that was part of her contract and she was let go.
Some other women who did not work out very well, black and white, left voluntarily and that took care of the situation then.
We had another Hispanic who was not working out very well and he left voluntarily.
So in some ways, some of the minorities and others who we hired have left on their own and did not necessitate, but several have been let go.
Do you remember in the department any tricks or jokes that anybody ever played on any faculty member?
Not that I know of.
I think that was pretty much gone by the time I came.
I've known some that were played by some of the faculty members.
I've heard of, but I wasn't privy to.
And so, you know, to speak of them, like I've heard the story that someone gave Dr. Nancy a subscription to Playboy.
Yes, I've heard of that.
I've heard it, but I don't know who did it, so no one ever told me they did it.
So I really can't say about that then.
For you personally, what were some high points, some
proud moments, happy moments, as you look back on that four decades?
Well, let's see.
I guess I was nominated to be the Piper professor from the department and the college.
I didn't win it.
A gentleman from engineering got it, but I was the nominee put forward by the college for that then.
And I looked upon my years as a
undergraduate advisor was very rewarding to me and I think I did a good job and the department profited from that and I got to know students better along that line, you know.
As Phi Alpha Theta, I was the advisor to Phi Alpha Theta for 20 plus years and I won
I won the National Award for Outstanding Fowl Potato advisor one year, and we had a very— Did you organize that?
No, no, it was organized.
Henry Deltloff, Garland Bates, and I, and were you involved?
I can't remember now.
I don't think so.
But three or four of us were involved in organizing that.
About when?
We started organizing that while we were still in Nagel Hall.
So I was advised for almost 25 years, and Henry and Garland were involved in it for three or four or five years.
Now that's the undergraduate history?
History.
Or graduate too, anyone.
Yeah.
And faculty members.
You remember in those early days, we used to have full initiations.
Well, it goes back to 70s, late 60s, and we had candles and flowers and roses.
We had dinners and things like that.
We went full ring.
I remember Betty Unaburger was in favor of that, and I remember Betty carrying a candle, and I always kind of watched it, and I thought, that just doesn't seem to appropriate, Betty carrying that candle.
Well, we were very active for a long time, and we actually were very active, and Larry pushed it too, and I had three regional conferences here, which were quite successful.
Money got scarce, and Larry could not put any money into it anymore, and so
I asked Larry at that time, I got tired of pushing it, really, and many organizations like that, the depth and quality of your leadership dictates on what it's going to be.
And I found myself doing more and more and more, and there was no reward for it.
So I finally went to Larry and asked him, what did he want to do?
Like, for instance, we'd have a speaker come in, and we have seven people there.
And I said, wait a minute now, you know.
And I asked Larry,
Do I have the power to browbeat, order people to be there?
What do you want to do?
And he decided that we would not, that we would let it be just voluntary, and it pretty much went downhill then.
Is it still going?
Oh, it's still going, yes, and it's still active.
Good.
It's like it was with me at the end there.
When I pushed it very hard and worked with it, it was very active.
We did a good job.
When I got a little tired of pushing it and that sort of thing, it declined.
We have not had any strong presidents in a long time.
When I was in the University of Texas, it was considered to be an honor to be president.
Towards the end,
we were begging people to be president.
And when that happened, I said, wait a minute, man, if I've got to beg somebody to be president of Alabama, something's wrong.
That would be an honor you ought to be able to put on your media.
I was president of Alabama.
Other happy moments, high points.
Well, I think some of the complications we had and, you know, the inaugurations, or whatever you want to call it, of the new presidents, of Williams and so on and so on, were fun and enjoyable then.
Of the presidents that you served under, who were your favorites?
I'm not going to ask the other side.
Well, I think, no doubt, Rudder and Williams.
They both served a long time.
But despite Rutter's faults, the university ran smoothly.
Major decisions were made and carried out.
And history department prospered in those days.
And I think the same thing under Williams.
Some of the other presidents I knew less of.
And I think there was more controversy in some of those presidents.
But I think those two.
Vandiver was all, I got along with Vandiver pretty well.
And liked Vandiver.
But things kind of coasted under Vandiver pretty much, yeah.
What advice would, let's make believe you're the new consultant to the department, what advice would you give for the history department today?
Well, I think I would tell them that we really need to decide on what specialties we're going to do, and we need to look at that in a very cold light.
We can't compete with the University of Texas.
They're already there, and they've got a long road history.
We could look at the rest of the colleges in the state, the major ones, and see what they're trying to do.
I still think that military history is the one place where we could really excel and could really do well in that.
Texas history is not emphasized at Texas anymore, and I think we could really do well there.
I think we could recruit well there, and I think we could get our library strengthened.
There's lots of text material out if we'd simply go out and look for it, which we've not done.
I think the new dean of the library is amenable to that.
I think that Fred Heath would be willing to work on that, and I think we could do that.
But the problem with that is that that's colloquial.
And there are a lot of people in the department who think we should be, they seem to think that a national image can just develop out of nothing.
They talk about doing this, but we don't have the wherewithal to do it.
It takes a pile of money to recruit a big name in medieval history or whatever it's going to be.
And I think you have to face reality.
We can build a name in local areas.
And I think we need to pick three or four areas.
We've never really done.
We've talked.
But again, we've talked in generalities.
And we've talked in areas that we're never going to be.
We don't have the library.
We don't have the wherewithal to do that.
And that's what I would tell the department, really bite hard and decide what we're going to do.
I think also
I think it's all good and well to leave developmental department people alone.
But I think one office hours a week on Friday from 5 to 6 is just really terrible.
I'm not saying you should spend 8 to 12 or 8 to 4 there, but I think you ought to keep reasonable hours before students can come see you and you ought to be available.
And I don't think they're doing that.
I don't say you should love A&M.
But I think that if you can't enjoy A&M and want to be part of it, I think something's wrong really then with it.
All right.
Next, the last question then.
Let's make believe someone walks up to you and gives you a million-dollar check with the requirement.
You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you get to decide what it would go for.
What would you, if you had the capability to give them a major gift to A&M, what would it be for?
I think I would have it.
I think I would establish a chair in history and I think the other half would go to the library.
And what specialties?
Put a purchase of books.
It would be in Texas history or southern history.
What about the chair?
It would be in those areas too.
I would put it in an area which I think we could do well in.
In fact, I would not be against maybe military history doing that then, but it would be an area in which I thought we could develop something in.
Do you think of other things we haven't talked about that we should?
Well, I've enjoyed my time at A&M.
I came to A&M without any thought of staying here.
I had no idea.
I think that most of us are that way.
He had no idea.
My wife thought I was bringing her to the end of the world.
We went from Houston to Austin, and Austin was a dinky town in 1956.
It was a dinky town.
I'll use that.
Sears was mainly a mail order area, and we finally grew to attach to that.
It grew, and we left there to come here to A&M where they rolled up the sidewalks at night, and there was only one place in town where you could get any food after 10 o'clock at night.
That was Franklin's, and it was a beer joint.
But it was a good place to raise children.
And we had two children, and we enjoyed it.
And we found that A&M students, I think on the whole, are more religious, more conscientious, and more conservative, and more family-oriented than most places.
And certainly that's true of Texas.
And I found them to be on the whole be good kids.
And I enjoyed teaching them.
I met a few bad apples.
And I think that'd be true of any place.
I didn't dislike my time at Texas.
I enjoyed my three years teaching at Texas.
And a lot of the problems we have at A&M, they had them there.
This idea that schools were all different as a bunch of bull, because certainly some of the problems I had here at A&M, some smarty girls were no more interested in school than some of the Aggies I've had at times along that line.
So last question I can think of is what feelings do you hold in your heart for A&M today?
I'm not an Aggie, of course.
My wife's an Aggie, tenant class.
My two boys are Aggies.
My two boys and two girls by marriage have nine Aggie degrees between them.
And when I did advising, I used to tell my students that I don't think they can go to a better place for general education than A&M.
It's a good school.
There are other good schools, too.
There's nothing wrong with going to Texas University or SMU.
But I think A&M is a very good place to go.
We have a lot of strengths.
We have some weaknesses.
And I see nothing wrong with the Corps.
I think the Corps is great for some people.
People in the Corps keep it their whole lives.
I wonder how many people graduate from most colleges 40 years down the line still have a tie to that school that they can hold to.
I don't think many, but Aggies do.
I think the tie A&M has, we are different.
Aggies are different in that sense.
Disaster of Bonfire is an example of that, really.
A&M is different.
Not always good things, maybe, but I think basically good.
I think most of the things are good.
I thought it should change.
I'll tell you, that girl's in.
I thought the course should not be compulsory, but those changes like that, I think that A&M is a fine place to be.
And we raised two kids here, and our best friends are here.
We've lived here almost most of our life now.
Let's quit there.
Good.